These are like some of my
absolute favorite API's.
They're so cool.
So at a very high-level rolling in
talk about two of them today, but
there are all these APIs in webinar
that start with prefers and
what they're doing is they're giving you
access to specific system information.
So operating system level information.
So you have a disability,
you get a new laptop,
then you set it up for accessibility.
So you say, hey, in this example like
the question, I suffer from seizures.
I wanna make sure that I select
the reduced motion option inside
accessibility.
So that means that like a lot of
the cool Mac effects will just skip and
they'll just go either very slow or
just instant.
So not a lot of flashing.
We've had that for
years in the system level.
What we haven't had as any way to
engage with those API's on the web.
And so now, we have these ways
like this prefers reduced motion.
I'll come back to this WebAIM,
but I just wanna show an example.
So let's say we start with a div and
we give it a class of animation, and
we put the word animated box in it.
And then with CSS,
we do something like this.
We say, okay, that class Should have
a pulsing animation every second.
What you can now do as
a media query is you can say,
if the user prefers reduced motion,
then instead of that fancy pulsating
animation just do a nice
simple dissolve animation.
And what this looks
like is this demo here.
So you see this box is like pulsating.
I go into my preferences accessibility
display and I click reduce motion.
That's where my whole system.
And as soon as I click on reduce motion,
the web instantly updates.
So we'll see I go into system [references,
accessibility,
display as soon as I click it.
The thing stops and switches over
to a nice dissolve animation.
So you can really build as many things as
you want with a nice animation as long as
you put a media query under it that says,
okay, if they prefer reduce motion do
this instead whether it's nothing or
a lighter animation is totally great.
So this is a very, very cool and it allows
us to do things that normally would be
rightfully criticized as being
even potentially dangerous.
Like the question mentioned,
what if people have seizures that we can
now do very comfortably,
because we know that anybody that has
accessibility settings turned on we'll
get this much better experience.
So yeah, back to WebAIM on that one.
They say, no page content flashes more
than three times per second, unless it's
really small and then they have
guidelines on what really small means.
But to be a Triple A compliant,
no page content flashes more
than three times per second.
So the only takeaways here would be three
times per second is a really good rule to
just follow,
just not do it more than that.
Even if you're slower than that and
you have the time offering some kind
of prefers reduced motion even if you
just simply have no animation
can be a really nice experience.